# ChemE_Captone: Design of a Small-Scale Modular Anhydrous Ammonia Synthesis Process

Team Member: Tora Gao, Zheng Shi, Leon Zhang

Due to the high shipping costs associated with ammonia transportation and the large demands of ammonia as a fertilizer in the Midwest region, we designed a modular ammonia synthesis process with a production capability of 50 metric tons per day (mtpd). This small-scale modular process will be located in geographic proximity to agricultural customers in the Midwest to meet the large ammonia fertilizer demands and provide an alternate supply chain to these customers. Our proposed process can be broken down into three parts: the upstream nitrogen production process, the upstream hydrogen production process, and the downstream ammonia synthesis loop. In the upstream processes, nitrogen gas is generated through pressure swing absorption (PSA) and hydrogen gas is generated through alkaline electrolysis. The two components are essential raw materials for producing ammonia. The downstream process is an absorbent enhanced ammonia synthesis process consists of a catalyst enhanced fix bed reactor, typical in Haber-Bosch ammonia synthesis processes, and an absorption system that recovers ammonia as opposed to a condenser and separator used in a typical Haber-Bosch process. The efficient ammonia recovery by the absorption system allows the ammonia synthesis reaction to be carried out at much lower pressures thereby reducing the size and costs associated with the process to make a small-scale process viable. Using the Aspen Plus v8.6 simulator, we designed our process and evaluated various factors associated with it.

Our final design utilized six ammonia synthesis modules run in parallel to meet the 50 mtpd production goal. By using the modular design strategy and incorporating process intensification strategies such as reactive-absorption, we were able to successfully to scale-down the Haber-Bosch process to the desired production goal. The absorption feature of our process enabled us to successfully reduce the operating pressure and equipment size/costs while the use of electrolysis for hydrogen production significantly reduced the carbon emission of our process. The utilization of cheap renewable electricity from wind energy in the Midwest region helped to decrease utility costs associated with energy-intensive processes such as electrolysis. However, our process is currently not economically viable and will not make any profit within its project lifetime of 20 years.

We recommend increasing the individual modular sizes and increase the production rate of each module. By doing so, we can further mitigate the effects of loss of economy of scale and increase our profit margins with increased production capabilities. The overall process will still be at a small-scale but because of the large demand in ammonia fertilizer in the Midwest region, we believe an increased production rate is justifiable. Additionally, better power purchase agreements could be negotiated to further reduce the cost of electricity from renewable wind energy and decrease utility/operating costs. An energy storage system can be built for the electrolysis system as well where energy will be stored to create a steady supply of electricity for the process. Since the electrolysis system is currently contributing to a large fraction of the capital and operating costs, other methods to produce hydrogen can be employed that are much cheaper; although, these methods may not result in reduced carbon emissions.
